## 13.2 Rotations

### 13.2-1
***
Write pseudocode for RIGHT-ROTATE.

### `Solution:`
    RIGHT-ROTATE(T, y)
        x = y.left
        y.left = x.right
        if x.right != T.nil
            x.right.p = y
        x.p = y.p
        if y.p == T.nil
            T.root = x
        elseif y == y.p.left
            y.p.left = x
        else
            y.p.right = x
        x.right = y
        y.p = x

### 13.2-2
***
Argue that in every n-node binary search tree, there are exactly n - 1 possible rotations.

### `Solution:`
Every node can rotate with its parent, only the root does not have a parent, therefore there are n - 1 possible rotations.

### 13.2-3
***
Let a, b, and c be arbitrary nodes in subtrees alpha, beta, and gamma, respectively, in the left tree of Figure 13.2. How do the 
depths of a, b, and c change when a left rotation is performed on node x in the figure?

### `Solution:`
a: increase by 1.

b: unchanged.

c: decrease by 1.

### 13.2-4
***
Show that any arbitrary n-node binary search tree can be transformed into any other arbitrary n-node binary search tree using O(n) 
rotations.

### `Solution:`
对于根节点左边的节点，如果有右儿子就左旋;对于根节点右边的节点，如果有左儿子就右旋;最后我们得到了一根排序好的链表.

对于另外一棵树，我们也能通过相同的方法转换为这根链表.

因此，通过逆变换就能转换回去，自然是O(n)的.

### *13.2-5
***
We say that a binary search tree T_1 can be right-converted to binary search tree T_2 if it is possible to obtain T_2 from T_1 via 
a series of calls to RIGHT-ROTATE. Give an example of two trees T_1 and T_2 such that T_1 cannot be right-converted to T_2. Then, 
show that if a tree T_1 can be right-converted to T_2, it can be right-converted using O(n^2) calls to RIGHT-ROTATE.

