## 5.2 Indicator random variables

### 5.2-1
***
In HIRE-ASSISTANT, assuming that the candidates are presented in a random order, what is the probability that you hire exactly 
one time? What is the probability that you hire exactly n times?

#### `Solution:`
* Extractly one time

The best candidate comes first. So the probability is 1/n.

* Extractly n times

The candidates presented in ascending order. So the probability is 1/(n!).

### 5.2-2
***
In HIRE-ASSISTANT, assuming that the candidates are presented in a random order, what is the probability that you hire exactly twice?

#### `Solution:`
Suppose the first candidate is of rank k. For these candidates whose rank are higher than k, the number is n - k. So the probability 
is 1/(n-k), where among these candidates, the candidate n is  first.

So P = sum_{k=1}^{n-1} 1/n * 1/(n-k) 

### 5.2-3
***
Use indicator random variables to compute the expected value of the sum of n dice.

#### `Solution:`
E[X_i] = (1+2+3+4+5+6)/6 = 3.5

E[X] = E[sum_{i=1}^{n}] = sum_{i=1}^{n}E[X_i] = 3.5*n

### 5.2-4
***
Use indicator random variables to solve the following problem, which is known as the __*hat-check problem*__. Each of n customers 
gives a hat to a hat-check person at a restaurant. The hat-check person gives the hats back to the customers in a random order. 
What is the expected number of customers who get back their own hat?

#### `Solution:`
The probability of one customer get his/her hat back is 1/n, therefore the expectation is:

E[X] = E[X_1 + X_2 + ... + X_n]= n * (1/n) = 1.

### 5.2-5
***
Let A[1 ... n] be an array of n distinct numbers. If i < j and A[i] > A[j], then the pair (i,j) is called an __*inversion*__ 
of A. (See Problem 2-4 for more on inversions.) Suppose that the elements of A form a uniform random permutation of 
<1, 2, ..., n >. Use indicator random variables to compute the expected number of inversions.

#### `Solution:`
Suppose X_{ij} = I{(i, j)  is an inversion},

Then E[X_{ij}] = 1/2

E[X] = E[sum_{i=1}{n-1} sum{j=i+1}{n} X_{ij}] = n(n-1)/4
