## 9.3 Selection in worst-case linear time

### 9.3-1
***
In the algorithm SELECT, the input elements are divided into groups of 5. Will the algorithm work in linear time if they are divided 
into groups of 7? Argue that SELECT does not run in linear time if groups of 3 are used.

### 9.3-2
***
Analyze SELECT to show that if n >= 140, then at least $$\lceil n/4 \rceil$$ elements are greater than the median-of-medians x and 
at least $$\lceil n/4 \rceil$$ elements are less than x.

### 9.3-3
***
Show how quicksort can be made to run in O(nlgn) time in the worst case, assuming that all elements are distinct.

### `Solution:`
Use median as pivot, since we can find median in O(n), and based on Problem 7-2 (b), we have T(n) = 2T(n/2) + O(n).

### *9.3-4
***
Suppose that an algorithm uses only comparisons to find the i-th smallest element in a set of n elements. Show that it can also find 
the i - 1 smaller elements and n - i larger elements without performing additional comparisons.

### 9.3-5
***
Suppose that you have a "black-box" worst-case linear-time median subroutine. Give a simple, linear-time algorithm that solves the 
selection problem for an arbitrary order statistic.

### `Solution:`
    T(n) = T(n/2) + Θ(n), so T(n) = Θ(n)
    
    SELECT(A, p, r, i)
        if p == r
            return A[p]
        median = BLACK-BOX-MEDIAN(A, p, r)
        q = PARTITION(A, p, r, median)
        k = q - p + 1
        if k == i
            return A[q]
        else if k < i
            return SELECT(A, q + 1, r, i - k)
        else
            return SELECT(A, p, q - 1, i)
        
    PARTITION(A, p, r, x)
        for k = p to r
            if A[k] == x
                swap A[k], A[r]
                break
        i = p - 1
        for k = p to r - 1
            if A[k] < x
                i = i + 1
                swap A[i], A[k]
        i = i + 1
        swap A[i], A[r]
        return i
* [9.3-5.cpp](./exercise_code/9.3-5.cpp)

### 9.3-6
***
The kth __*quantiles*__ of an n-element set are the k - 1 order statistics that divide the sorted set into k equal-sized sets (to 
within 1). Give an O(nlgk)-time algorithm to list the k-th quantiles of a set.

### 9.3-7
***
Describe an O(n)-time algorithm that, given a set S of n distinct numbers and a positive integer k <= n, determines the k numbers in 
S that are closest to the median of S.

### `Solution:`
Find the median in O(n); create a new array, each element is the absolute value of the original value subtract the median; find the 
k-th smallest number in O(n),  then the desired values are the elements whose absolute difference with the median is less than or 
equal to the k-th smallest number in the new array.

    KCLOSEST(S, k)
        median = RandomizedSelect(S, (S.length + 1) / 2)
        let C[1...S.length] be a new array
        for i = 1 to S.length
            C[i] = abs(S[i] - median)
        kth = RandomizedSelect(C, k)
        closest = []
        for i = 1 to S.length
            if abs(S[i] - median) <= kth
                closest.append(S[i])
                if closest.length == k
                    return closest
* [9.3-7.cpp](./exercise_code/9.3-7.cpp)

### 9.3-8
***
Let X[1...n] and Y[1...n] be two arrays, each containing n numbers already in sorted order. Give an O(lgn)-time algorithm to find 
the median of all 2n elements in arrays X and Y.

### `Solution:`
We can find the median in O(1) time in a sorted array, compare the medians of the two array, if the meidan of X is less than the 
median of Y, then we know the median must located in the right side of X or left side of Y. Do it recursively, when there is only 
one element left in each array, the smaller one is the median.

    MEDIANOFTWO(A, p_a, r_a, B, p_b, r_b)
        if p_a == r_a
            return A[p_a]
        mid = (r_a - p_a) / 2
        if A[p_a + mid] <= B[p_b + mid]
            return MEDIANOFTWO(A, r_a - mid, r_a, B, p_b, p_b + mid)
        else
            return MEDIANOFTWO(A, p_a, p_a + mid_a, B, r_b - mid, r_b)
* [9.3-8.cpp](./exercise_code/9.3-8.cpp)

### 9.3-9
***
Professor Olay is consulting for an oil company, which is planning a large pipeline running east to west through an oil field of n 
wells. The company wants to connect a spur pipeline from each well directly to the main pipeline along a shortest route (either north 
or south), as shown in Figure 9.2. Given the x- and y-coordinates of the wells, how should the professor pick the optimal location 
of the main pipeline, which would be the one that minimizes the total length of the spurs? Show how to determine the optimal location 
in linear time.

### `Solution:`
We just need to find the median of the y coordinates.
