## 6.2 Maintaining the heap property

### 6.2-1
***
Using Figure 6.2 as a model, illustrate the operation of MAX-HEAPIFY(A, 3) on the array A = 27, 17, 3, 16, 13, 10, 1, 5, 7, 12, 4, 8, 9, 0.

### `Solution:`
MAX-HEAPIFY(A, 3):      
                        
                        A[3] = 3, A[6] = 10, so swap A[3] and A[6].

                        A[6] = 3, A[13] = 9, so swap A[6] and A[13].
                        
                        done.

### 6.2-2
***
Starting with the procedure MAX-HEAPIFY, write pseudocode for the procedure MIN-HEAPIFY(A, i), which performs the corresponding manipulation on a minheap. How does the running time of MIN-HEAPIFY compare to that of MAX-HEAPIFY?

### `Solution:`
        MIN-HEAPIFY(A,i)
                l = LEFT(i)
                r = RIGHT(i)
                if l <= A.heap-size and A[l] < A[i]
                        smallest = l
                else
                        smallest = i
                if r <= A.heap-size and A[r] < A[smallest]
                        smallest = r
                if smallest != i
                        swap A[i] and A[smallest]
                        MIN-HEAPIFY(A, smallest)
* [6.2-2.cpp](./exercise_code/6.2-2.cpp)
* Running time is the same Θ(lgn) = Θ(h).

### 6.2-3
***
What is the effect of calling MAX-HEAPIFY(A, 3) when the element A[i] is larger than its children?

### `Solution:`
No effect. And the procedure will not recursive.

### 6.2-4
***
What is the effect of calling MAX-HEAPIFY(A, 3) for i > A.heap-size = 2?

### `Solution:`
No effect. 

### 6.2-5
***
The code for MAX-HEAPIFY is quite efficient in terms of constant factors, except possibly for the recursive call in line 10, which might cause some compilers to produce inefficient code. Write an efficient MAX-HEAPIFY that uses an iterative control construct (a loop) instead of recursion.

### `Solution:`
        MAX-HEAPIFY(A, i)
                while true
                        l = LEFT(i)
                        r = RIGHT(i)
                        if l <= A.heap-size and A[l] > A[i]
                                largest = l
                        else
                                largest = i
                        if r <= A.heap-size and A[r] > A[largest]
                                largest = r
                        if largest == i
                                return
                        swap A[i] and A[largest]
                        i = largest
* [6.2-5.cpp](./exercise_code/6.2-5.cpp)

### 6.2-6
***
Show that the worst-case running time of MAX-HEAPIFY on a heap of size n is Θ(lgn). (Hint: For a heap with n nodes, give node values that cause MAX-HEAPIFY to be called recursively at every node on a simple path from the root down to a leaf.)

### `Solution:`
The height is lgn.
