## 6.5 Priority queues

### 6.5-1
***
Illustrate the operation of HEAP-EXTRACT-MAX on the heap A = 15, 13, 9, 5, 12, 8, 7, 4, 0, 6, 2, 1.

### `Solution:`
Return 15 and A = 13, 12, 9, 5, 6, 8, 7, 4, 0, 1, 2.

### 6.5-2
***
Illustrate the operation of MAX-HEAP-INSERT(A, 10) on the heap A = 15, 13, 9, 5, 12, 8, 7, 4, 0, 6, 2, 1.

### `Solution:`
Insert: A = 15, 13, 9, 5, 12, 8, 7, 4, 0, 6, 2, 1, -∞

Increase: A = 15, 13, 10, 5, 12, 9, 7, 4, 0, 6, 2, 1, 8

### 6.5-3
***
Write pseudocode for the procedures HEAP-MINIMUM, HEAP-EXTRACT-MIN, HEAP-DECREASE-KEY, and MIN-HEAP-INSERT that implement a 
min-priority queue with a min-heap.

### 'Solution:'
        HEAP-MINIMUM(A)
                return A[1]
        
        HEAP-EXTRACT-MIN(A)
                if A.heap-size < 1
                        error "heap underflow"
                min = A[1]
                A[1] = A[A.heap-size]
                A.heap-size = A.heap-size - 1
                MIN-HEAPIFY(A, 1)
                return min
        
        HEAP-DECREASE-KEY(A, i, key)
                if key > A[i]
                        error "new key is larger than current key"
                A[i] = key
                while i > 1 and A[PARENT(i)] > A[i]
                        swap A[i] and A[PARENT(i)]
                        i = PARENT(i)
        
        MIN-HEAP-INSERT(A, key)
                A.heap-size = A.heap-size + 1
                A[A.heap-size] = +∞
                HEAP-DECREASE-KEY(A, A.heap-size, key)
* [6.5-3.cpp](./exercise_code/6.5-3.cpp)
                 
### 6.5-4
***
Why do we bother setting the key of the inserted node to -∞ in line 2 of MAXHEAP-INSERT when the next thing we do is increase its key to the desired value?

### `Solution:`
To make key >= A[i].

### 6.5-5
***
Argue the correctness of HEAP-INCREASE-KEY using the following loop invariant:

At the start of each iteration of the while loop of lines 4–6, the subarray A[1 ... A.heap-size] satisfies the max-heap property, except that there may be one violation: A[i] may be larger than A[PARENT(i)].

You may assume that the subarray A[1 ... A.heap-size] satisfies the max-heap property at the time HEAP-INCREASE-KEY is called.

Correct.

### 6.5-6
***
Each exchange operation on line 5 of HEAP-INCREASE-KEY typically requires three assignments. Show how to use the idea of the inner loop of INSERTION-SORT to reduce the three assignments down to just one assignment.

### `Solution:`
        HEAP-INCREASE-KEY(A, i, key)
                if key < A[i]   
                        error "New key is smaller than current key!"
                while i > 1 and A[PARENT(i)] < key
                        A[i] = A[PARENT(i)]
                        i = PARENT(i)
                A[i] = key
* [6.5-6.cpp](./exercise_code/6.5-6.cpp)

### 6.5-7
***
Show how to implement a first-in, first-out queue with a priority queue. Show how to implement a stack with a priority queue.

### `Solution:`
For a stack we keep adding elements in increasing priority, while in a queue we add them in decreasing priority.

### 6.5-8
***
The operation HEAP-DELETE(A, i) deletes the item in node i from heap A. Give an implementation of HEAP-DELETE that runs in O(lgn) time for an n-element max-heap.

### `Solution:`
        HEAP-DELETE(A, i)
                A[i] = A[A.heap-size]
                A.heap-size = A.heap-size - 1
                if i > 1 and A[PARENT(i)] < A[i]
                        HEAP-INCREASE-KEY(A, i, a[i])
                else
                        MAX-HEAPIFY(A, i)
* [6.5-8.cpp](./exercise_code/6.5-8.cpp)

### 6.5-9
***
Give an O(nlgk)-time algorithm to merge k sorted lists into one sorted list, where n is the total number of elements in all the input lists. (Hint: Use a minheap for k-way merging.)

### `Solution:`
We take one element of each list and put it in a min-heap. Along with each element we have to track which list we took it from. When merging, we take the minimum element from the heap and insert another element off the list it came from (unless the list is empty). We continue until we empty the heap.

We have n steps and at each step we're doing an insertion into the heap, which is lg{k}.
