## 15.1 Rod cutting

### 15.1-1
***
Show that equation (15.4) follows from equation (15.3) and the initial condition T(0) = 1.

### `Solution:`  
For n = 0, T(0) = 2^0 = 1.

Suppose T(i) = 2^i for i in [0, n - 1], then

T(n) = 1 + sum_{j=0}^{n-1}T(j) = 1 + 1 + 2 + 2^2 + ... + 2^{n-1} = 2^n - 1 + 1 = 2^n

### 15.1-2
***
Show, by means of a counterexample, that the following "greedy" strategy does not always determine an optimal way to cut rods. Define 
the density of a rod of length i to be p_i/i, that is, its value per inch. The greedy strategy for a rod of length n cuts off a first 
piece of length i, where 1 <= i <= n, having maximum density. It then continues by applying the greedy strategy to the remaining piece 
of length n - i.

### `Solution:`
Suppose p_1  = 1, p_2 = 8, p_3 = 14, p_4 = 15, the densities p_1/1 = 1, p_2/2 = 4, p_3/3 = 14/3, p_4/4 = 15/4, for n=4, the greedy 
result is 3 and 1, the total value is 15, and the dynamic programming solution is 2 and 2, which is 16.

### 15.1-3
***
Consider a modification of the rod-cutting problem in which, in addition to a price p_i for each rod, each cut incurs a fixed cost of 
c. The revenue associated with a solution is now the sum of the prices of the pieces minus the costs of making the cuts. Give a 
dynamic-programming algorithm to solve this modified problem.

### `Solution:`
r_n = max(max_{1 <= i <= n-1} (p_i + r_{n-i}) - c, p_n)

    BOTTOM-UP-CUT-ROD(p, n, c)
        let r[0...n] be a new array
        r[0] = 0
        for j = 1 to n
            q = -∞
            fot i = 1 to j - 1
                q = max(q, p[i] + r[j-i] - c)
            q = max(q, p[j])
            r[j] = q
        return r[n]

### 15.1-4
***
Modify MEMOIZED-CUT-ROD to return not only the value but the actual solution, too.

### `Solution:`
    MEMOIZED-CUT-ROD(p, n)
        let r[0...n] and s[0...n] be new arrays
        for i = 0 to 
            r[i] = -∞
        MEMOIZED-ROD-AUX(p, n, r, s)
        return r and s
    
    MEMOIZED-ROD-AUX(p, n, r, s)
        if r[n] >= 0
            return r[n]
        if n == 0
            q = 0
        else 
            q = -∞
            for i = 1 to n
                q_ = p[i] + MEMOIZED-ROD-AUX(p, n-i, r, s)
                if q < q_
                    q = q_
                    s[n] = i
        r[n] = q
        return q

### 15.1-5
***
The Fibonacci numbers are defined by recurrence (3.22). Give an O(n)-time dynamic-programming algorithm to compute the nth Fibonacci 
number. Draw the subproblem graph. How many vertices and edges are in the graph?

### `Solution:`
    FIB(n)
        if n == 0
            return 0
        elseif n == 1
            return 1
        else
            a = 0
            b = 1
            for i = 2 to n
                c = a + b
                a = b
                b = c
            return b
