## 15.4 Longest common subsequence

### 15.4-1
***
Determine an LCS of <1, 0, 0, 1, 0, 1, 0, 1> and <0, 1, 0, 1, 1, 0, 1, 1, 0>.

### `Solution:`
<1, 0, 0, 1, 1, 0>.

### 15.4-2
***
Give pseudocode to reconstruct an LCS from the completed c table and the original sequences X = <x_1, x_2, ..., x_m> and 
Y = <y_1, y_2, ..., y_n> in O(m + n) time, without using the b table.

### `Solution:`
    PRINT-LCS(c, X, i, j)
        if i == 0 or j == 0
            return
        if c[i][j] == c[i-1][j-1] + 1
            PRINT-LCS(c, X, i-1, j-1)
            print X[i]
        elseif c[i][j] == c[i-1][j]
            PRINT-LCS(c, X, i-1, j)
        else
            PRINT-LCS(c, X, i, j-1)

### 15.4-3
***
Give a memoized version of LCS-LENGTH that runs in O(mn) time.

### `Solution:`
    LCS-LENGTH(X, Y, i, j)
        m = X.length
        n = Y.length
        let c[0...m][0...n] be a new array
        for i = 0 to m
            c[i][0] = 0
        for j = 0 to n
            c[0][j] = 0
        for i = 1 to m
            for j = 1 to n
                c[i][j] = -1
        return LCS-LENGTH-AUX(c, X, Y, m, n)
        
    LCS-LENGTH-AUX(c, X, Y, i, j)
        if c[i][j] >= 0
            return c[i][j]
        if X[i] == Y[j]
            c[i][j] = LCS-LENGTH-AUX(c, X, Y, i-1, j-1) + 1
        else
            c[i][j] = max(LCS-LENGTH-AUX(c, X, Y, i-1, j), LCS-LENGTH-AUX(c, X, Y, i, j-1))
        return c[i][j]

### 15.4-4
***
Show how to compute the length of an LCS using only 2 * min(m, n) entries in the c table plus O(1) additional space. Then show how 
to do the same thing, but using min(m, n) entries plus O(1) additional space.

### `Solution:`
2 * min(m, n): 因为求解一个项c[i,j],只会用到c[i-1,j-1],c[i,j-1],c[i-1,j]. 所以我们只需要保存上面一行的状态和当前行的状态即可,再令
X,Y这两个字符串中短的那一个放到index j. 所以可以用2*min(m, n)的空间运行算法.

min(m, n): c[i,j-1]已经保存在该行中. 然后用一个常量维护c[i-1,j-1]即可.每次更新c[i,j]的时候将old valuy保存下来,因为下次要用到.

### 15.4-5
***
Give an O(n^2)-time algorithm to find the longest monotonically increasing subsequence of a sequence of n numbers.

### `Solution:`
Calculate the LCS of the original sequence and the sorted sequence, O(nlgn) + O(n^2)=O(n^2) time.

### *15.4-6
***
Give an O(nlgn)-time algorithm to find the longest monotonically increasing subsequence of a sequence of n numbers.
