## 22.2 Breadth-first search

### 22.2-1
***
Show the d and π values that result from running breadth-first search on the directed graph of Figure 22.2(a), using vertex 3 as the 
source.

### 22.2-2
***
Show the d and π values that result from running breadth-first search on the undirected graph of Figure 22.3, using vertex u as the 
source.

### 22.2-3
***
Show that using a single bit to store each vertex color suffices by arguing that the BFS procedure would produce the same result if 
18-line was removed.

### `Solution:`
Obviously.

### 22.2-4
***
What is the running time of BFS if we represent its input graph by an adjacency matrix and modify the algorithm to handle this form 
of input?

### `Solution:`
де(V^2).

### 22.2-5
***
Argue that in a breadth-first search, the value u.d assigned to a vertex u is independent of the order in which the vertices appear 
in each adjacency list. Using Figure 22.3 as an example, show that the breadth-first tree computed by BFS can depend on the ordering 
within adjacency lists.

### `Solution`
Obviously.

### 22.2-6
***
Give an example of a directed graph G = (V, E), a source vertex s \in V, and a set of tree edges E_π \subseteq E such that for each 
vertex v \in V, the unique simple path in the graph (V, E_π) from s to v is a shortest path in G, yet the set of edges E_π cannot be 
produced by running BFS on G, no matter how the vertices are ordered in each adjacency list.

### 22.2-7
***
There are two types of professional wrestlers: "babyfaces" ("good guys") and "heels" ("bad guys"). Between any pair of professional 
wrestlers, there may or may not be a rivalry. Suppose we have n professional wrestlers and we have a list of r pairs of wrestlers for 
which there are rivalries. Give an O(n+r)-time algorithm that determines whether it is possible to designate some of the wrestlers as 
babyfaces and the remainder as heels such that each rivalry is between a babyface and a heel. If it is possible to perform such a 
designation, your algorithm should produce it.

### *22.2-8
***
The __*diameter*__ of a tree T = (V, E) is defined as max_{u,v \in V}\delta(u,v), that is, the largest of all shortest-path distances 
in the tree. Give an efficient algorithm to compute the diameter of a tree, and analyze the running time of your algorithm.

### 22.2-9
***
Let G = (V, E) be a connected, undirected graph. Give an O(V + E)-time algorithm to compute a path in G that traverses each edge in E 
exactly once in each direction. Describe how you can find your way out of a maze if you are given a large supply of pennies.
