## 22.4 Topological sort

### 22.4-1
***
Show the ordering of vertices produced by TOPOLOGICAL-SORT when it is run on the dag of Figure 22.8, under the assumption of Exercise 22.3-2.

### 22.4-2
***
Give a linear-time algorithm that takes as input a directed acyclic graph G = (V, E) and two vertices s and t, and returns the number of 
simple paths from s to t in G. For example, the directed acyclic graph of Figure 22.8 contains exactly four simple paths from vertex p 
to vertex v: pov, poryv, posryv, and psryv. (Your algorithm needs only to count the simple paths, not list them.)

### `Solution:`
Add a field to the vertex representation to hold an integer count. Initially, set vertex t’s count to 1 and other vertices’ count to 0. 
Start running DFS with s as the start vertex. When t is discovered, it should be immediately marked as finished (BLACK), without further 
processing starting from it. Subsequently, each time DFS finishes a vertex v, set v’s count to the sum of the counts of all vertices 
adjacent to v. When DFS finishes vertex s, stop and return the count computed for s.

### 22.4-3
***
Give an algorithm that determines whether or not a given undirected graph G = (V, E) contains a cycle. Your algorithm should run in O(V) 
time, independent of |E|.

### `Solution:`
An undirected graph is acyclic (i.e., a forest) iff a DFS yields no back edges. Since back edges are those edges (u, v) connecting a 
vertex u to an ancestor v in a depth-first tree, so no back edges means there are only tree edges, so there is no cycle.

So we can simply run DFS. If find a back edge, there is a cycle. The complexity is O(V) instead of O(E + V). Since if there is a back 
edge, it must be found before seeing |V | distinct edges. This is because in a acyclic (undirected ) forest, |E| ≤ |V | - 1

### 22.4-4
*** 
Prove or disprove: If a directed graph G contains cycles, then TOPOLOGICAL-SORT(G) produces a vertex ordering that minimizes the number 
of "bad" edges that are inconsistent with the ordering produced.

### 22.4-5
***
Another way to perform topological sorting on a directed acyclic graph G = (V, E) is to repeatedly find a vertex of in-degree $, output 
it, and remove it and all of its outgoing edges from the graph. Explain how to implement this idea so that it runs in time O(V + E). 
What happens to this algorithm if G has cycles?

### `Solution:`
Maintain the in-degrees of the nodes. If the in-degree is 0, then add the node to a queue. When removing a node, all the nodes it 
connects to should subtract their in-degrees by 1.
