## 22.5 Strongly connected components

### 22.5-1
***
How can the number of strongly connected components of a graph change if a new edge is added?

### `Solution:`
* 如果增加的是一个强连通分量里面的边,那么不会影响.
* 如果增加的是不同连通分量之间的边,那么可能不会减少,也可能会减少,最多减少到1.

### 22.5-2
***
Show how the procedure STRONGLY-CONNECTED-COMPONENTS works on the graph of Figure 22.6. Specifically, show the finishing times computed 
in line 1 and the forest produced in line 3. Assume that the loop of lines 5–7 of DFS considers vertices in alphabetical order and that 
the adjacency lists are in alphabetical order.

### 22.5-3
***
Professor Bacon claims that the algorithm for strongly connected components would be simpler if it used the original (instead of the 
transpose) graph in the second depth-first search and scanned the vertices in order of _increasing_ finishing times. Does this simpler 
algorithm always produce correct results?

### `Solution:`
No. See Fig.22-9

### 22.5-4
***
Prove that for any directed graph G, we have ((G^T)^{SCC})^T = G^{SCC}. That is, the transpose of the component graph of G^T is the same 
as the component graph of G.

### 22.5-5
***
Give an O(V + E)-time algorithm to compute the component graph of a directed graph G = (V, E). Make sure that there is at most one edge 
between two vertices in the component graph your algorithm produces.

### `Solution:`
先执行STRONGLY-CONNECTED-COMPONENTS过程,然后对每个节点赋予[1,k]中的一个值,即生成的k个强联通分量.第k个强联通分量里面的所有节点的值为k. 
然后遍历每一个节点i, 对Adj[i]的每一个节点j, 如果k[i]和k[j]以前没有边,则加上.

### 22.5-6
***
Given a directed graph G = (V, E), explain how to create another graph G' = (V, E') such that (a) G' has the same strongly connected 
components as G, (b) G' has the same component graph as G, and (c) E' is as small as possible. Describe a fast algorithm to compute G'.

### 22.5-7 
***
A directed graph G = (V, E) is __*semiconnected*__ if, for all pairs of vertices u, v \in V, we have $$u \leadsto v$$ or $$v \leadsto u$$. 
Give an efficient algorithm to determine whether or not G is semiconnected. Prove that your algorithm is correct, and analyze its running 
time.


