## 14.1 Dynamic order statistics

### 14.1-1
***
Show how OS-SELECT$$(T.root, 10)$$ operates on the red-black tree $$T$$ of Figure 14.1.

### `Solution:`
* 26: r = 13, i = 10, go left
* 17: r = 8, i = 10, go right
* 21: r = 3, i = 2, go left
* 19: r = 1, i = 2, go right
* 20: r = 1, i = 1, choose 20

### 14.1-2
***
Show how OS-RANK(T, x) operates on the red-black tree T of Figure 14.1 and the node x with x.key = 35.

### `Solution:`
* 35: r = 1
* 38: r = 1
* 30: r = r + 2 = 3
* 41: r = 3
* 26: r = r + 13 = 16

### 14.1-3
***
Write a nonrecursive version of OS-SELECT.

### `Solution:`
    OS-SELECT(x, i)
        while true
            if x.left != NULL
                r = x.left.size + 1
            else 
                r = 1
            if i == r
                return r
            elseif i < r
                x = x.left
            else
                x = x.right
                i = i - r

### 14.1-4
***
Write a recursive procedure OS-KEY-RANK(T, k) that takes as input an order-statistic tree T and a key k and returns the rank of k in 
the dynamic set represented by T. Assume that the keys of T are distinct.

### `Solution:`
    OS-KEY-RANK(T, k)
        if T.left != NULL
            r = T.left.size + 1
        else
            r = 1
        if T.key == k
            return r
        elseif T.key < k
            return r + OS-KEY-RANK(T.right, k)
        else
            return OS-KEY-RANK(T.left,k)

### 14.1-5
***
Given an element x in an n-node order-statistic tree and a natural number i, how can we determine the i-th successor of x in the 
linear order of the tree in O(lgn) time?

### `Solution:`
OS-SELECT(T, OS-RANK(T, x) + i)

### 14.1-6
***
Observe that whenever we reference the size attribute of a node in either OS-SELECT or OS-RANK, we use it only to compute a rank. 
Accordingly, suppose we store in each node its rank in the subtree of which it is the root. Show how to maintain this information 
during insertion and deletion. (Remember that these two operations can cause rotations.)

### `Solution:`
Tree walk and change the rank by comparing the key of the node with that of the inserted node.

### 14.1-7
***
Show how to use an order-statistic tree to count the number of inversions (see Problem 2-4) in an array of size n in time O(nlgn).

### `Solution:`
After the insertion of a node, the number of tree nodes subtract the rank of the inserted node is the number of inversions of the 
current node.

### *14.1-8
***
Consider n chords on a circle, each defined by its endpoints. Describe an O(nlgn)- time algorithm to determine the number of pairs of 
chords that intersect inside the circle. (For example, if the n chords are all diameters that meet at the center, then the correct 
answer is $$\binom{n}{2}$$. Assume that no two chords share an endpoint.
