## 14.3 Interval trees

### 14.3-1
***
Write pseudocode for LEFT-ROTATE that operates on nodes in an interval tree and updates the $$max$$ attributes in O(1) time.

### ``Solution:
    y.max = x.max
    x.max = max(x.int.high, x.left.max, x.right.max)

### 14.3-2
***
Rewrite the code for INTERVAL-SEARCH so that it works properly when all intervals are open.

### `Solution:`
    INTERVAL-SEARCH(T, i)
        x = T.root
        while x != T.nil and x doesn't overlap x.int
            if x.left != T.nil and x.left.max > i.low
                x = x.left
            else x = x.right
         return x

### 14.3-3
***
Describe an efficient algorithm that, given an interval i , returns an interval overlapping i that has the minimum low endpoint, or 
T.nil if no such interval exists.

### `Solution:`
    MIN-INTERVAL-SEARCH(T, i)
        x = T.root
        ret = T.nil
        while x != T.nil:
            if i overlap x.int
                if ret == T.nil or ret.left > x.int.left
                    ret = x
            if x.left != T.nil and x.left.max >= i.low
                x = x.left
            else 
                x = x.right
        return ret

### 14.3-4
***
Given an interval tree T and an interval i, describe how to list all intervals in T that overlap i in O(min(n, klg n)) time, where 
k is the number of intervals in the output list.

### `Solution:`
    INTERVALS-SEARCH(T, x, i)
        lst = []
        if i overlaps x.int
            lst.append(x)
        if x.left != T.nil and x.left.max >= i.low
            lst += INTERVALS-SEARCH(T, x.left, i)
        if x.right != T.nil and x.int.low <= i.high and x.right.max >= i.low
            lst += INTERVALS-SEARCH(T, x.right, i)
        return lst

### 14.3-5
***
Suggest modifications to the interval-tree procedures to support the new operation INTERVAL-SEARCH-EXACTLY(T, i), where T is an 
interval tree and i is an interval. The operation should return a pointer to a node x in T such that x.int.low = i.low and 
x.int.high = i.high, or T.nil if T contains no such node. All operations, including INTERVAL-SEARCH-EXACTLY, should run in O(lgn) 
time on an n-node interval tree.

### `Solution:`
Search for nodes which has exactly the same low value.

### 14.3-6
***
Show how to maintain a dynamic set Q of numbers that supports the operation MIN-GAP, which gives the magnitude of the difference of 
the two closest numbers in Q. For example, if Q = {1, 5, 9, 15, 18, 22}, then MIN-GAP(Q) returns 18 - 15 = 3, since 15 and 18 are 
the two closest numbers in Q. Make the operations INSERT, DELETE, SEARCH, and MIN-GAP as efficient as possible, and analyze their 
running times.

### `Solution:`
给节点新增3个属性

* mingap : 以当前节点为根,其子树的最小gap.叶子结点为∞
* maxval : 以当前节点为根,其子树的最大关键字
* minval : 以当前节点为根,其子树的最小关键字

根据定理14.1(红黑书的扩张):每次红黑树的插入,删除都能在O(lgn)的时间内更新这些信息

<br \>

	minval[x] = min(key[x], minval[x->left])
	maxval[x] = max(key[x], maxval[x->right])
	mingap[x] = min(mingap[left[x]], mingap[right[x], key[x]−maxval[left[x]], minval[right[x]]−key[x])

### *14.3-7
***
VLSI databases commonly represent an integrated circuit as a list of rectangles. Assume that each rectangle is rectilinearly 
oriented (sides parallel to the x- and y-axes), so that we represent a rectangle by its minimum and maximum x and y-coordinates.  
Give an O(nlgn)-time algorithm to decide whether or not a set of n rectangles so represented contains two rectangles that overlap. 
Your algorithm need not report all intersecting pairs, but it must report that an overlap exists if one rectangle entirely covers 
another, even if the boundary lines do not intersect.
