## 11.1 Direct-address tables

### 11.1-1
***
Suppose that a dynamic set S is represented by a direct-address table T of length m. Describe a procedure that finds the maximum 
element of S. What is the worst-case performance of your procedure?

### `Solution:`
Traverse the table, O(m).

### 11.1-2
***
A __*bit vector*__ is simply an array of bits (0s and 1s). A bit vector of length m takes much less space than an array of m pointers. 
Describe how to use a bit vector to represent a dynamic set of distinct elements with no satellite data. Dictionary operations should 
run in O(1) time.

### `Solution:`
Set the corresponding bit to 0 or 1.

### 11.1-3
***
Suggest how to implement a direct-address table in which the keys of stored elements do not need to be distinct and the elements 
can have satellite data. All three dictionary operations (INSERT, DELETE, and SEARCH) should run in O(1) time. (Don't forget that 
DELETE takes as an argument a pointer to an object to be deleted, not a key.)

### `Solution:`
Each key contains a linked list.

### *11.1-4
***
We wish to implement a dictionary by using direct addressing on a huge array. At the start, the array entries may contain garbage, 
and initializing the entire array is impractical because of its size. Describe a scheme for implementing a direct-address dictionary 
on a huge array. Each stored object should use O(1) space; the operations SEARCH, INSERT, and DELETE should take O(1) time each; 
and initializing the data structure should take O(1) time. 
