## 11.4 Open addressing

### 11.4-1
***
Consider inserting the keys 10, 22, 31, 4, 15, 28, 17, 88, 59 into a hash table of length m = 11 using open addressing with the 
auxiliary hash function h'(k) = k. Illustrate the result of inserting these keys using linear probing, using quadratic probing 
with c_1 = 1 and c_2 = 3, and using double hashing with h_1(k) = k and h_2(k) = 1 + (k mod (m - 1)).

### `Solution:`

Linear: [22, 88, None, None, 4, 15, 28, 17, 59, 31, 10]

Quadratic: [22, None, 88, 17, 4, None, 28, 59, 15, 31, 10]

Double: [22, None, 59, 17, 4, 15, 28, 88, None, 31, 10]

*[11.4-1.cpp](./exercise_code/11.4-1.cpp)

### 11.4-2
***
Write pseudocode for HASH-DELETE as outlined in the text, and modify HASHINSERT to handle the special value DELETED.

### `Solution:`
    HASHINSERT(T, k)
        i = 0
        repeat
            j = h(k, i)
            if T[j] == NIL or T[j] == "deleted"
                T[j] = k
                return j
            else
                i = i + 1
        until i == m
        error "hash table overflow"
        
    HASHDELETE(T, k)
        i = 0
        repeat
            j = h(k, i)
            if T[j] == NIL
                error "no such key"
                return
            if T[j] == key
                T[j] = "deleted"
                return
            i = i + 1
        until i == m
        error "no such key"
*[11.4-2.cpp](./exercise_code/11.4-2.cpp)

### 11.4-3
***
Consider an open-address hash table with uniform hashing. Give upper bounds on the expected number of probes in an unsuccessful 
search and on the expected number of probes in a successful search when the load factor is 3/4 and when it is 7/8.

### `Solution:`
alpha = 3/4, unsuccessful: 1/(1-alpha) = 4 probes, successful: 1/alpha * ln{1/(1-alpha)} ~~ 1.848 probes.

alpha = 7/8, unsuccessful: 1/(1-alpha) = 8 probes, successful: 1/alpha * ln{1/(1-alpha)} ~~ 2.377 probes.

### *11.4-4
***
Suppose that we use double hashing to resolve collisions—that is, we use the hash function h(k, i) = (h_1(k) + ih_2(k)) mod m. Show 
that if m and h_2(k) have greatest common divisor d >= 1 for some key k, then an unsuccessful search for key k examines (1/d)th of 
the hash table before returning to slot h_1(k). Thus, when d = 1, so that m and h_2(k) are relatively prime, the search may examine 
the entire hash table.

### *11.4-5
***
Consider an open-address hash table with a load factor alpha. Find the nonzero value alpha for which the expected number of probes in 
an unsuccessful search equals twice the expected number of probes in a successful search. Use the upper bounds given by Theorems 11.6 
and 11.8 for these expected numbers of probes.

