## 12.1 What is a binary search tree?

### 12.1-1
***
For the set of { 1, 4, 5, 10, 16, 17, 21 } of keys, draw binary search trees of heights 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6.

### 12.1-2
***
What is the difference between the binary-search-tree property and the min-heap property (see page 153)? Can the min-heap property 
be used to print out the keys of an n-node tree in sorted order in O(n) time? Show how, or explain why not.

### `Solution:`
No, heap needs O(nlgn) time.

### 12.1-3
***
Give a nonrecursive algorithm that performs an inorder tree walk.

### `Solution:`
    INORDER-TREE-WALK-LOOP(root)
        stack S
        while true
            while root != NULL
                S.push(root)
                root = root.left
            if EMPTY-STACK(S)
                return
            root = POP(S)
            PRINT(root.val)
            root = root.right
* [12.1-3.cpp](./exercise_code/12.1-3.cpp)

### 12.1-4
***
Give recursive algorithms that perform preorder and postorder tree walks in Θ(n) time on a tree of n nodes.

### `Solution:`
    PREORDER(root)
        if root != NULL
            PRINT(root.val)
            PREORDER(root.left)
            PREORDER(root.right)
    
    POSTORDER(root)
        if root != NULL
            POSTORDER(root.left)
            POSTORDER(root.right)
            PRINT(root.val)
* [12.1-4.cpp](./exercise_code/12.1-4.cpp)

### 12.1-5
***
Argue that since sorting n elements takes \Omega(nlgn) time in the worst case in the comparison model, any comparison-based 
algorithm for constructing a binary search tree from an arbitrary list of n elements takes \Omega(nlgn) time in the worst case.

### `Solution:`
If we construct the binary search tree by comparison-based algorithm using less than \Omega(nlgn) time, since the inorder tree walk 
is Θ(n), then we can get the sorted elements in less than \Omega(nlgn) time, which contradicts the fact that sorting n elements takes 
\Omega(nlgn) time in the worst case.
