## 12.2 Querying a binary search tree

### 12.2-1
***
Suppose that we have numbers between 1 and 1000 in a binary search tree, and we want to search for the number 363. Which of the 
following sequences could not be the sequence of nodes examined?

a. 2, 252, 401, 398, 330, 344, 397, 363.

b. 924, 220, 911, 244, 898, 258, 362, 363.

c. 925, 202, 911, 240, 912, 245, 363.

d. 2, 399, 387, 219, 266, 382, 381, 278, 363.

e. 935, 278, 347, 621, 299, 392, 358, 363.

### `Solution:`
c is impossible since 911 < 912.

e is impossible since 299 < 347.

### 12.2-2
***
Write recursive versions of TREE-MINIMUM and TREE-MAXIMUM.

### `Solution:`
    TREEMINIMUM(x)
        if x.left != NULL
            return TREEMINIMUM(x.left)
        else
            return x
    
    TREEMAXIMUM(x)
        if x.right != NULL
            return TREEMAXIMUM(x.right)
        else
            return x
* [12.2-2.cpp](./exercise_code/12.2-2.cpp)

### 12.2-3
***
Write the TREE-PREDECESSOR procedure.

### `Solution:`
    TREE-PREDECESSOR(x)
        if x.left != NULL
            return TREE-MAXIMUM(x.left)
        y = x.p
        while y != NULL and y.right != x
            x = y
            y = y.p
        return y
* [12.2-3.cpp](./exercise_code/12.2-3.cpp)

### 12.2-4
***
Professor Bunyan thinks he has discovered a remarkable property of binary search trees. Suppose that the search for key k in 
a binary search tree ends up in a leaf. Consider three sets: A, the keys to the left of the search path; B, the keys on the 
search path; and C, the keys to the right of the search path. Professor Bunyan claims that any three keys a in A, b in B, and 
c in C must satisfy a <= b <= c. Give a smallest possible counterexample to the professor's claim.

### `Solution:`

### 12.2-5
***
Show that if a node in a binary search tree has two children, then its successor has no left child and its predecessor has no 
right child.

### `Solution:`
If its successor has left child, then the left child is less than successor and it's larger than the node, thus the successor is 
not the successor.

### 12.2-6
***
Consider a binary search tree T whose keys are distinct. Show that if the right subtree of a node x in T is empty and x has a 
successor y, then y is the lowest ancestor of x whose left child is also an ancestor of x. (Recall that every node is its own 
ancestor.)

### `Solution:`
TREE-SUCCESSOR

### 12.2-7
***
An alternative method of performing an inorder tree walk of an n-node binary search tree finds the minimum element in the tree 
by calling TREE-MINIMUM and then making n - 1 calls to TREE-SUCCESSOR. Prove that this algorithm runs in Θ(n) time.

### `Solution:`
Based on 12.2-8, it takes O(h + n + n - 1) time, therefore it's Θ(n).

### 12.2-8
***
Prove that no matter what node we start at in a height-h binary search tree, k successive calls to TREE-SUCCESSOR take O(k + h) time.

### `Solution:`
Suppose x is the starting node and y is the ending node. The distance between x and y is at most 2h, and all the edges connecting 
the k nodes are visited twice, therefore it takes O(k + h) time.

### 12.2-9
***
Let T be a binary search tree whose keys are distinct, let x be a leaf node, and let y be its parent. Show that y.key is either 
the smallest key in T larger than x.key or the largest key in T smaller than x.key.

### `Solution:`
TREE-SUCCESSOR or TREE-PREDECESSOR
