## 12.3 Insertion and deletion

### 12.3-1
***
Give a recursive version of the TREE-INSERT procedure.

### `Solution:`
    TREE-INSERT(x, z)
        if x == NULL
            return z
        if x.key < z.key
            if x.right == NULL
                x.right = z
                z.p = x
            else
                TREE-INSERT(x.right, z)
        else 
            if x.left == NULL
                x.left = z
                z.p = x
            else
                TREE-INSERT(x.left, z)
        return z
* [12.3-1.cpp](./exercise_code/12.3-1.cpp  )
            
### 12.3-2
***
Suppose that we construct a binary search tree by repeatedly inserting distinct values into the tree. Argue that the number of nodes 
examined in searching for a value in the tree is one plus the number of nodes examined when the value was first inserted into the 
tree.

### `Solution:`
Obviously

### 12.3-3
***
We can sort a given set of n numbers by first building a binary search tree containing these numbers (using TREE-INSERT repeatedly 
to insert the numbers one by one) and then printing the numbers by an inorder tree walk. What are the worstcase and best-case 
running  times for this sorting algorithm?

### `Solution:`
Worst: chain, O(n^2).

Best: Θ(nlgn).

### 12.3-4
***
Is the operation of deletion "commutative" in the sense that deleting x and then y from a binary search tree leaves the same tree as 
deleting y and then x? Argue why it is or give a counterexample.

### `Solution:`
No.

### 12.3-5
***
Suppose that instead of each node x keeping the attribute x.p, pointing to x's parent, it keeps x.succ, pointing to x's successor. 
Give pseudocode for SEARCH, INSERT, and DELETE on a binary search tree T using this representation. These procedures should operate 
in time O(h), where h is the height of the tree T.

### 12.3-6
***
When node z in TREE-DELETE has two children, we could choose node y as its predecessor rather than its successor. What other 
changes to TREE-DELETE would be necessary if we did so? Some have argued that a fair strategy, giving equal priority to predecessor 
and successor, yields better empirical performance. How might TREE-DELETE be changed to implement such a fair strategy?

### `Solution:`
Randomly choose predecessor and successor.
