## 7.2 Performance of quicksort

### 7.2-1
***
Use the substitution method to prove that the recurrence T(n) = T(n - 1) + Θ(n) has the solution T(n) = Θ(n^2), as claimed at 
the beginning of Section 7.2.

### 7.2-2
***
What is the running time of QUICKSORT when all elements of array A have the same value?

### `Solution:`
T(n) = T(n-1) + Θ(n)

So T(n) = Θ(n^2)

### 7.2-3
***
Show that the running time of QUICKSORT is Θ(n^2) when the array A contains distinct elements and is sorted in decreasing order.

### `Solution:`
T(n) = T(n-1) + Θ(n)

T(n) = Θ(n^2)

### 7.2-4
***
Banks often record transactions on an account in order of the times of the transactions, but many people like to receive their 
bank statements with checks listed in order by check number. People usually write checks in order by check number, and merchants 
usually cash them with reasonable dispatch. The problem of converting time-of-transaction ordering to check-number ordering is 
therefore the problem of sorting almost-sorted input. Argue that the procedure INSERTION-SORT would tend to beat the procedure 
QUICKSORT on this problem.

### `Solution:`
A simple intuitive argument will suffice here.

The more sorted the array is, the less work insertion sort will do. Namely, INSERTION-SORT is Θ(n+d), where d is the number of 
inversions in the array. In the example above the number of inversions tends to be small so insertion sort will be close to linear.

On the other hand, if PARTITION does picks a pivot that does not participate in an inversion, it will produce and empty partition. 
Since there is a small number of inversions, QUICKSORT is very likely to produce empty partitions.

### 7.2-5
***
Suppose that the splits at every level of quicksort are in the proportion 1-\alpha to \alpha, where 0 < \alpha <= 1/2 is a constant. 
Show that the minimum depth of a leaf in the recursion tree is approximately -lgn / lg\alpha and the maximum depth is approximately 
-lgn / lg(1-\alpha). (Don't worry about integer round-off.)

### `Solution:`
Let x be the minimum depth,

Then alpha^x * n = 1, so x = -lgn / lg\alpha

Let y be the minimum depth,

Then (1-alpha)^y * n = 1, so y = -lgn / lg(1-\alpha)

### *7.2-6

Argue that for any constant 0 < \alpha <= 1/2, the probability is approximately 1 - 2\alpha, that on a random input array, 
PARTITION produces a split more balanced than 1-\alpha to \alpha.
