## 4.5 The master method for solving recurrences

### 4.5-1
***
Use the master method to give tight asymptotic bounds for the following recurrences.

* __a__.  T(n) = 2T(n/4) + 1

Θ(n^{log_{4}2} = Θ(n^(0.5))

* __b__.  T(n) = 2T(n/4) + n^{0.5}

Θ(n^{0.5} * lgn)

* __c__.  T(n) = 2T(n/4) + n

Θ(n)

* __d__. T(n) = 2T(n/4) + n^2

Θ(n^2)

### 4.5-2
***
Professor Caesar wishes to develop a matrix-multiplication algorithm that is asymptotically faster than Strassen’s algorithm. 
His algorithm will use the divide and conquer method, dividing each matrix into pieces of size n/4 * n/4, and the divide and 
combine steps together will take Θ(n^2) time. He needs to determine how many subproblems his algorithm has to create in order 
to beat Strassen’s algorithm. If his algorithm creates a subproblems, then the recurrence for the running time T(n) becomes 
T(n) = aT(n/4) + Θ(n^2). What is the largest integer value of a for which Professor Caesar’s algorithm would be asymptotically 
faster than Strassen’s algorithm?

### `Solution:`
log_{4}a < log_{2}7

So the largest a is 48.

### 4.5-3
***
Use the master method to show that the solution to the binary-search recurrence T(n) = T(n/2) + Θ(1) is T(n) = Θ(lgn). 
(See Exercise 2.3-5 for a description of binary search.)

### `Solution:`
Θ(n^(log_{2}1)) = Θ(1)

So T(n) = lgn

### 4.5-4
***
Can the master method be applied to the recurrence T(n) = 4T(n/2) + n^2 * lgn? Why or why not? Give an asymptotic upper 
bound for this recurrence.

### `Solution:`
No. O(n^2 * lg^n).

### *4.5-5
***
Consider the regularity condition af(n/b) <= cf(n) for some constant c < 1, which is part of case 3 of the master theorem. 
Give an example of constants a >= 1 and b > 1 and a function f(n) that satisfies all the conditions in case 3 of the master 
theorem except the regularity condition.
