## 10.1 Stacks and queues

### 10.1-1
***
Using Figure 10.1 as a model, illustrate the result of each operation in the sequence PUSH(S,4), PUSH(S,1), PUSH(S,3), POP(S), 
PUSH(S,8), and POP(S) on an initially empty stack S stored in array S[1...6].

### `Solution:`
    S = 4
    
    S = 4, 1
    
    S = 4, 1, 3
    
    S = 4, 1
    
    S = 4, 1, 8
    
    S = 4, 1

### 10.1-2
***
Explain how to implement two stacks in one array A[1...n] in such a way that neither stack overflows unless the total number of 
elements in both stacks together is n. The PUSH and POP operations should run in O(1) time.

### `Solution:`
The first stack starts at 1 and grows up towards n, while the second starts form n and grows down towards 1. Stack overflow happens 
when an element is pushed when the two stack pointers are adjacent.

### 10.1-3
***
Using Figure 10.2 as a model, illustrate the result of each operation in the sequence ENQUEUE(Q,4), ENQUEUE(Q,1), ENQUEUE(Q,3), 
DEQUEUE(Q), ENQUEUE(Q,8), and DEQUEUE(Q) on an initially empty queue Q stored in array Q[1...6].

### `Solution:` 
    Q = 4
    
    Q = 4, 1
    
    Q = 4, 1, 3
    
    Q = 1, 3
    
    Q = 1, 3, 8
    
    Q = 3, 8

### 10.1-4
***
Rewrite ENQUEUE and DEQUEUE to detect underflow and overflow of a queue.

### `Solution:`
    ENQUEUE(Q, x)
        if mod(Q.tail, Q.length) + 1 == Q.head
            error "underflow"
        Q[Q.tail] = x
        if Q.tail == Q.length
            Q.tail = 1
        else
            Q.tail = Q.tail + 1
            
    DEQUEUE(Q, x)
        if Q.tail == Q.head
            error "overflow"
        x = Q[Q.head]
        if Q.head = Q.length
            Q.head = 1
        else
            Q.head = Q.head + 1
        return x
* [10.1-4.cpp](./exercise_code/10.1-4.cpp)

### 10.1-5
***
Whereas a stack allows insertion and deletion of elements at only one end, and a queue allows insertion at one end and deletion at the
other end, a __*deque*__ (doubleended queue) allows insertion and deletion at both ends. Write four $$O(1)$$-time procedures to insert
elements into and delete elements from both ends of a deque implemented by an array.

### `Solution:`
    INIT(DQ, size)
        DQ.length = size
        DQ.head = 1
        DQ.tail = 1
    
    PUSH-FRONT(DQ, x)
        if mod(DQ.tail, DQ.length) + 1 == DQ.head
            error "underflow"
        if DQ.head == 1
            DQ.head = DQ.length
        else
            DQ.head = DQ.head - 1
        DQ[DQ.head] = x
    
    PUSH-BACK(DQ, x)
        if mod(DQ.tail, DQ.length) + 1 == DQ.head
            error "underflow"
        DQ[DQ.tail] = x
        if DQ.tail == DQ.length
            DQ.tail = 1
        else
            DQ.tail = DQ.tail + 1
            
    POP-FRONT(DQ)
        if DQ.tail == DQ.head
            error "overflow"
        x = DQ[DQ.head]
        if DQ.head = DQ.length
            DQ.head = 1
        else
            DQ.head = DQ.head + 1
        return x
        
    POP-BACK(DQ)
        if DQ.tail == DQ.head
            error "overflow"
        if DQ.tail = 1
            DQ.tail = DQ.length
        else
            DQ.tail = DQ.tail - 1
        return DQ[DQ.tail]
* [10.1-5.cpp](./exercise_code/10.1-5.cpp)

### 10.1-6
***
Show how to implement a queue using two stacks. Analyze the running time of the queue operations.

### `Solution:`
Enqueue: Θ(1). 

Dequeue: worst O(n), amortized Θ(1).

    INIT(Q)
        S_1.clear
        S_2.clear
        
    ENQUEUE(Q, x)
        PUSH(S_1, x)
    
    DEQUEUE(Q)
        if STACK-EMPTY(S_1) and STACK-EMPTY(S_2)
            error "overflow"
        if STACK-EMPTY(S_2)
            while not STACK-EMPTY(S_1)
                x = POP(S_1)
                PUSH(S_2, x)
        x = POP(S_2)
        return x
* [10.1-6.cpp](./exercise_code/10.1-6.cpp)
            
### 10.1-7
***
Show how to implement a stack using two queues. Analyze the running time of the stack operations.

### `Solution:`
Push: $$\Theta(1)$$. 

Pop: $$\Theta(n)$$.

