## 10.2 Linked lists

### 10.2-1
***
Can you implement the dynamic-set operation INSERT on a singly linked list in O(1) time? How about DELETE?

### `Solution:`
INSERT: O(1).

DELETE: O(n).

    INSERT(L, x) 
        x.next = L.head
        L.head = x
        
    DELETE(L, x)
        if L.head == x
            L.head = L.head.next
        else
            pre = L.head
            while pre.next != NULL and pre.next != x
                pre = pre.next
            if pre.next == NULL
                error "No such x"
            else
                pre.next = pre.next.next
* [10.2-1.cpp](./exercise_code/10.2-1.cpp)

### 10.2-2
***
Implement a stack using a singly linked list L. The operations PUSH and POP should still take O(1) time.

### `Solution:`
    INIT(S)
        L.clear()
    
    PUSH(S, x)
        x.next = L.head 
        L.head = x
    
    POP(S)
        if L.head == NULL
            error "underflow"
        x = L.head
        L.head = x.next
        return x
* [10.2-2.cpp](./exercise_code/10.2-2.cpp)

### 10.2-3
***
Implement a queue by a singly linked list L. The operations ENQUEUE and DEQUEUE should still take O(1) time.

### `Solution:`
    INIT(Q)
        L.clear()
    
    ENQUEUE(Q, x)
        x->next = NULL
        if L.head == NULL
            L.head = x
            L.tail = x
        else
            L.tail->next = x
            L.tail = x
        
    DEQUEUE(Q) 
        if L.head == NULL
            error "underflow!"
        x = L.head
        L.head = x->next;
        if L.tail == x
            L.tail = L.head
        return x
* [10.2-3.cpp](./exercise_code/10.2-3.cpp)

### 10.2-4
***
As written, each loop iteration in the LIST-SEARCH' procedure requires two tests: one for x != L.nil and one for x.key != k. Show how 
to eliminate the test for x != L.nil in each iteration.

### `Solution:`
We can set the key of the sentinel and then return the sentinel itself. It's somehow weird, but it can work in some contexts:
    LIST-SEARCH'(L, k)
        x = L.nil.next
        L.nil.key = k
        while x.key != k
            x = x->next;
        return x

### 10.2-5
***
Implement the dictionary operations INSERT, DELETE, and SEARCH using singly linked, circular lists. What are the running times of your
procedures?

### `Solution:`
INSERT Θ(n), DELETE Θ(n), SEARCH Θ(n).
* [10.2-5.cpp](./exercise_code/10.2-5.cpp)

### 10.2-6
****
The dynamic-set operation UNION takes two disjoint sets S_1 and S_2 as input, and it returns a set S = S1 U S2 consisting of all the elements of S_1 and S_2. The sets S_1 and S_2 are usually destroyed by the operation. Show how to support UNION in O(1) time using a suitable list data structure.

### `Solution:`
*[10.2-6.cpp](./exercise_code/10.2-6.cpp)

### 10.2-7
***
Give a Θ(n)-time nonrecursive procedure that reverses a singly linked list of n elements. The procedure should use no more than 
constant storage beyond that needed for the list itself.

### `Solution:`
* [10.2-7.cpp](./exercise_code/10.2-7.cpp)

### *10.2-8
***
Explain how to implement doubly linked lists using only one pointer value $$x.np$$ per item instead of the usual two (next and prev). Assume all pointer values can be interpreted as k-bit integers, and define x.np to be x.np = x.next XOR x.prev, the k-bit "exclusive-or" of x.next and x.prev. (The value NIL is represented by 0.) Be sure to describe what information you need to access the head of the list. Show how to implement the SEARCH, INSERT, and DELETE operations on such a list. Also show how to reverse such a list in O(1) time.
