## 10.4 Representing rooted trees

### 10.4-1
***
Draw the binary tree rooted at index 6 that is represented by the following attributes:

|index|key|left|right|

|-|-|-|-|

|1|12|7|3|

|2|15|8|NIL|

|3|4|10|NIL|

|4|10|5|9|

|5|2|NIL|NIL|

|6|18|1|4|

|7|7|NIL|NIL|

|8|14|6|2|

|9|21|NIL|NIL|

|10|5|NIL|NIL|

### 10.4-2
***
Write an O(n)-time recursive procedure that, given an n-node binary tree, prints out the key of each node in the tree.

### `Solution:`
    PRINT-TREE(node)
        if node != NULL
            PRINT(node.val)
            PRINT-TREE(node.left)
            PRINT-TREE(node.right)
* [10.4-2.cpp](./exercise_code/10.4-2.cpp)

### 10.4-3
***
Write an O(n)-time nonrecursive procedure that, given an n-node binary tree, prints out the key of each node in the tree. Use a stack 
as an auxiliary data structure.

### `Solution:`
    PRINT-TREE(node)
        S.clear
        PUSH(S, node)
        while EMPTY-STACK(S)
            node = POP(S)
            PRINT(node.val)
            if node.left != NULL
                PUSH(node.left)
            if node.right != NULL
                PUSH(node.right)
* [10.4-3.cpp](./exercise_code/10.4-3.cpp)

### 10.4-4
***
Write an O(n)-time procedure that prints all the keys of an arbitrary rooted tree with n nodes, where the tree is stored using the 
left-child, right-sibling representation.

### `Solution:`
    PRINT-TREE(node)
        if node != NULL
            PRINT(node)
            PRINT-TREE(node.child)
            PRINT-TERR(node.sibling)
* [10.4-4.cpp](./exercise_code/10.4-4.cpp)

### *10.4-5
***
Write an O(n)-time nonrecursive procedure that, given an n-node binary tree, prints out the key of each node. Use no more than 
constant extra space outside of the tree itself and do not modify the tree, even temporarily, during the procedure.

### *10.4-6
***
The left-child, right-sibling representation of an arbitrary rooted tree uses three pointers in each node: _left-child_, _right-sibling_, and _parent_. From any node, its parent can be reached and identified in constant time and all its children can be 
reached and identified in time linear in the number of children. Show how to use only two pointers and one boolean value in each 
node so that the parent of a node or all of its children can be reached and identified in time linear in the number of children.

